# Set Expectations

## Learning Goals

- Identify a programmatical problem solving process
- Prepare to program with the Flatiron Process

## Introduction

Before we learn how to program, we need to learn how solve problems.
Programming, after all, is a process of solving problems with code. The better
we can think through problems and brainstorm solutions, the better programmers
we will be.

### Identify a Programmatical Problem Solving Process

#### Understand the Problem

The first step in any process of problem solving is to understand the problem at
hand. Read through whatever materials you have: errors, feedback, etc. Are you
able to pinpoint where the problem is happening? Can you identify the elements
that are connected to or potentially contributing to it? Gathering all of this
data will make sure that you're not missing a crucial clue to your solution or
mistakening solving for the wrong problem.

#### Create a Plan

Once you have throughougly reviewed and grasped the problem, you can begin to
determine what you need to do to resolve it. Sometimes once you've figured out
exactly what's going wrong, prior experience or external resources will
automatically point you in the right direction. Other times, you'll need to make
some informed guesses so that you can test them out and gather more information.
In any case, formulating a plan will give you a solid place to start. It will
also help you separate larger issues from smaller issues and prioritize them, so
that you are not trying to solve everything at once. It will also clarify what
resolution you want to get out of this process.

#### Implement Your Solution

Now it's time to try your solution out. If you don't get the result you were
expecting, well, at least now you have more data to work with, and you can
incorporate it into the next round of the process. Code, run, look for feedback,
and implement a new solution.

### Prepare to Program with the Flatiron Process

While the generalized problem solving process we just outlined is a great place
to begin, there's also a Flatiron-designed process geared towards specific
strategies and techniques to use while solving code problem. Keep this context
in mind as we dive into the Flatiron Process.

## Conclusion

By learning how to think more generally like a programmer, we will understand
more about how to break down and solve problems in code. We will also be
prepared to dive into the Flatiron strategies for producing solid code.
